---
title: "A Tinkerer's Blog"
excerpt: A warmup post to stir the imagination and get the juices flowing while I get ramped up on the whole 'blogging' bit...
published: true
---

Hi there, and welcome to my little corner of the world. There's not a lot here just yet, but someday you'll find tons of wisdom in these pages - articles from a [self-proclaimed expert](https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/speaking-of-science/wp/2015/07/20/self-proclaimed-experts-more-likely-to-fall-for-made-up-facts-study-finds), delivering wisdom to the technically faithful... Okay, that's  a bit of a stretch - I might touch on a topic that piques your interest; maybe! But I will definitely write about things that I hold dear. 

"And what are the things that you hold dear?" Well, for starters, I want to sling code (and I want to do it in a total, badass way - be that code-slingin' tough guy with a cavalier attitude that you can only get from years of wearing hoodies and ripped jeans in a professional office setting!). And if that falls through, I'd like to be good enough at writing code that I can stand tall in a room of developers and at least 'understand' the basic concepts in conversations about RESTful APIs, microservices, DevOps, and the like! 

I'm actually coming at this thing kind of... backwards! I'm a project manager by trade. I've managed lots of IT efforts; some large, some small, but until recently I never really did software development. I dabbled in school and built web sites as a hobby, but I had zero experience actually creating and delivering software. A few years ago, that all changed by happenstance when I ended up managing a very large software development effort with a bunch of really talented developers (real-life code-slining' tough guy and girl types like those I mentioned earlier)! 

Long story short; I really dig these people. They turn nothing into something on a regular basis - even more, they turn nothing into something incredible! I admire these people and the things they do so much that I came to the only logical conclusion possible - I wanna do that too! So I started learning Python in my free time. And it's pretty cool. I'm really early into it; you might say that I'm [licking the rind of the watermelon](https://books.google.com/books?id=XS9IAwAAQBAJ&pg=PA156&lpg=PA156&dq=licking+the+rind+of+the+watermelon&source=bl&ots=zjzQoiVane&sig=qsWWjMCARi7AX0PhvIUTpYgoGbU&hl=en&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwiwtdGa8JjUAhVEPCYKHaG3C30Q6AEIOjAF#v=onepage&q=licking%20the%20rind%20of%20the%20watermelon&f=false), but it's addictive and I can already see things that I can do to help myself out in the process. I just need to mature as a developer and start knocking those things down, bit-by-bit. 

So, along the way, I'm going to write about the things I learn, the tools and techniques that I discover or that others share with me in my pursuit of bad-assedness. Doing so will serve a dual purpose, because another interest I have is to be able to write better... 

But that's a topic for another day! 
