---
title: "Micro-Investing"
excerpt: Pondering on small ways to make money work.
categories: commentary
thumbnail: wrench
published: true
---
Investing is a huge topic, and, sadly, one that I'm not as familiar with as I would like to be. I mean, I'm set with the basics, but I could do more. The problem is that it is such a time-soak - you've got to learn about investing (_or pay somebody to do it for you - which is a non-sequitur for me because I'm so damned cheap!_), learn how to use the various tools, and then learn about each and every organization that you want to invest in and stay up-to-date on them afterwards. I'm not opposed to learning, but if you do the math you'll find that this quickly becomes an all-consuming activity!  

But wait! Turns out that there's an app for that! I heard about a micro-investing app called [Acorns](https://www.acorns.com/) that focuses on turning your spare change into an investment. So I poked around a little on their site. This one wouldn't work for me because it's a subscription-based service (_I'm generally not a fan of subscriptions, even though theirs is a very small fee and they even waive it for students_). Nevertheless, I found the concept of a bite-sized approach to investing intriguing. The question then became, "how can I focus on investing pennies?" 

I like the idea of rounding up the cost of every purchase I make to the nearest dollar and incrementally adding to my investment portfolio. It looks the Acorns' approach focuses on capturing your loose change as transactions occur (i.e., they round up each and every transaction as it takes place so that you somehow only see purchases rounded to the dollar). Then they apply the remainder toward your investments. The concept is sound, but it looks like you have to give them access to your bank accounts in order to execute - an approach that makes sense on the investment side, but doesn't on the security side. 

My next thought was that perhaps this is something that I can do for myself. Arguably, the reason that Acorns has seen such success (they have a very large, 500K+, userbase and excellent reviews) is that their service makes it easy to invest and doesn't become the time-soak that I mentioned earlier. So, if I'm going to do this on my own, I need to automate the process as much as possible. That's where Python, blockchain, and cryptocurrencies come in...  

I've been poking around with crypto a bit lately; mostly out of curiousity about how it works and a desire to understand the underpinning blockchain technology as well as a desire to bone up on security practices (two themes that run deep in any discussion of crypto). I don't think that I'll ever become a big time crypto-investor for exactly the same time-commitment reasons that I already touched on, but I do think that crypto is going to become the norm as time goes by, so I might as well figure it out now. The Python angle plays in because I'm an amateur Pythonista and I'm pretty convinced that there's nothing you cannot do with the programming language (_you can take that version, or you can translate it to, "because it's the only programming language that I know anything about!"_). 

When I dumped all of these ingredients into the kettle, a picture started to form. What if I worked up a program in Python that would calculate all of the pennies in all of my transactions and kept tabs on them for a set period of time? I could then apply the appropriate amount toward an investment at a pre-determined point in time (at the end of the week/month/quarter/whatever - initially focusing on the near-term over the long-term so that the "micro" theme stays in tact. 

This also leads to additional flexibilities in how I apply the micro-investments. I might want to apply a week's worth of change to my current investments in an IRA or make a cash deposit to my 401K, or, I may wish to convert it to crypto and play a little on the coin field to advance my position in that area. Either way, I'm doing something with regards to investments that I wasn't doing before, and if it works, I'll form a new habit that could prove beneficial. 

That said, I'm going to take an iterative approach to this; I'll poke at it a little and see what I can do insofar as writing some Python to capture & calculate the amounts, then I'll work on automating what happens with the resultant funds. If I make any headway, I'll hit you up here with an update. 
