---
title: "CentOS Setup"
excerpt: Steps I followed when setting up a CentOS Linux server for my home lab.
categories: tech
published: true
---

I've been playing around with Python for a little bit now; still quite the amateur, but I enjoy it as a hobby. Even though it's a hobby, most of the stuff I've done has been for work; parsing and analyzing data from multiple ticketing systems, generating reports, etc. And, even though the stuff I do has mostly been for work, the only time I usually have is after hours, so I find myself developing on a Mac, then porting everything over into the Windows world at the office. 

Python runs like a dog on Windows (*I haven't spent much time optimizing or anything, so that could be my fault*), so I was looking for something to speed things up for me. Eventually I finangled a Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) virtual machine to work on and run the scripts that need more juice. The Linux box, while still not a Mac, runs circles around the Windows machine and saves my sanity (*if not my time*). This left me in a bit of a conundrum as I then found myself coding on Mac at home, then running the code on Linux at the office. Oh-by-the-way - did I mention that I was still running some of my smaller jobs on Windows just because that's where the data was? So, actually, I was coding on Mac for jobs that I was running on Linux AND Windows.

Being somewhat geeky, I wanted to replicate these environments at home so that I could, comfortably, validate new code in as many of the operating systems as possible before I introduced them to my workflow. First I setup Parallels VMs for Windows and Linux on my MacBook Pro. That worked okay, but I wasn't really tickled about having to start up the VM every time I wanted to test something out (even though I'll probably do exactly the same thing with a physical box as time goes by!). Running multiple VMs also bogged down the Mac a little, so I had to find a better way.

I have Windows 10 machines at home, so replicating that part was pretty easy, but I didn't have a Linux machine. Over the weekend I figured that I'd throw something together so I can test more thoroughly. I figured that [CentOS](https://www.centos.org) should do the trick since it is an open-source version of RHEL. In fact, CentOS is provided by Red Hat and they keep it in sync with the paid-for RHEL versions - so, what better solution could there be?

I ran across an article - [TecMint: 30 Things to Do After Minimal RHEL/CentOS 7 Installation](https://www.tecmint.com/things-to-do-after-minimal-rhel-centos-7-installation/) - that provided recommendations 
